>> Sreenivasan: TRUCK DRIVERS
ARE A CRUCIAL LINK IN THE SUPPLY
CHAIN OF GETTING IMPORTED GOODS
FROM PORTS TO STORES.
AN INVESTIGATIVE REPORT BY "USA
TODAY" SHOWS THOSE DRIVERS WORK
LONG HOURS FOR LOW PAY WHILE
BEING HEAVILY IN DEBT FROM
LEASING THEIR TRUCKS.
THE STORY, "RIGGED," PUBLISHED
YESTERDAY, RECOUNTS HOW AT LEAST
140 TRUCK COMPANIES IN SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA HAVE BEEN ACCUSED OF
LABOR VIOLATIONS, AND FORCING
TRUCKERS INTO WORKING CONDITIONS
AKIN TO INDENTURED SERVITUDE.
THE ARTICLE'S AUTHOR, BRETT
MURPHY, JOINS ME FROM NAPLES,
FLORIDA, TO DISCUSS THIS STORY.
TELL US WHAT'S HAPPENING TO
THESE TRUCKERS?
>> WELL, THE COMPANIES FOUND A
LOOPHOLE IN THE LABOR LAW.
BY CALLING THESE GUYS
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS INSTEAD
OF EMPLOYEES, NO REAL RULES
APPLY.
THEY CAN KIND OF DO WHATEVER
THEY WANT-- OR THEY THINK THEY
CAN.
SO, WHAT THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO DO
WAS SORT OF FIND A LARGE
POPULATION OF TRUCK DRIVERS,
MOSTLY IMMIGRANTS, ABOUT 16,000
IMMIGRANT DRIVERS.
AND WHEN THE STATE TOLD THESE
COMPANIES THAT THEY HAD TO USE
NEWER, CLEANER TRUCKS, INSTEAD
OF PAYING FOR IT THEMSELVES,
THEY CAME UP WITH THIS IDEA OF
LEASE-TO-OWN CONTRACTS,
LEASE-TO-OWN AGREEMENTS.
AND WHEN THE DRIVERS CAME INTO
WORK ONE DAY, JUST LIKE THEY HAD
BEEN FOR DECADES, THE COMPANY
SAID, "IF YOU WANT TO KEEP YOUR
JOB HERE, IF YOU WANT TO KEEP
DRIVING, YOU NEED TO SIGN THIS
CONTRACT."
THEY DIDN'T TRANSLATE IT.
THEY DIDN'T EXPLAIN IT.
AND THE GUYS THOUGHT THAT THEY
WOULD JUST BE GETTING A NEW
TRUCK AFTER FIVE OR SEVEN YEARS,
AND IF THEY WORKED HARD, THEY'D
GET GOOD PAY, JUST LIKE THEY'D
ALWAYS HAD.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, THERE'S
NOTHING WRONG WITH INHERENTLY
THE LEASE-TO-OWN MODEL.
THAT HAPPENS EVERYWHERE.
HOW ARE THESE DRIVERS BEING
TAKEN ADVANTAGE OF?
>> BECAUSE THEY OWE MONEY TO
THEIR BOSS EVERY WEEK, THE
COMPANIES USE THAT AS SORT OF A
CONSTANT THREAT OF PUNISHMENT OR
RETALIATION.
SO, FOR INSTANCE, IF THEY DON'T
WANT TO WORK 14 OR 16 HOURS, THE
BOSS MIGHT SAY, "WELL, THEN, YOU
CAN'T WORK TOMORROW."
SO, THEY USE IT AS A CONTROL TO
MAKE THEM WORK AROUND THE CLOCK.
WE ARE LOOKING AT GUYS DOING 100
HOURS A WEEK, 120 HOURS A WEEK.
AND EVEN IF THE PAY IS SO BAD
THAT THEY'RE TAKING HOME PENNIES
ON THE HOUR, THEY HAVE NO CHOICE
BUT TO SAY YES.
IF THEY FALL BEHIND, FOR
INSTANCE, ON A WEEK, THE DEBT
CARRIES OVER TO THE NEXT WEEK.
AND THEY CAN ACTUALLY OWE THEIR
BOSS MONEY COME FRIDAY.
AND WE SAW CASES WHERE GUYS
WOULD COME HOME AFTER DOUBLE
SHIFTS-- 16, 18 HOURS A DAY--
THEY WOULD TRY TO GO HOME, YOU
KNOW, BACK TO THEIR FAMILIES,
THEY WERE TIRED.
AND THE BOSS WOULD ACTUALLY LOCK
THE GATES TO THE PARKING LOT AND
SAY, "NO, YOU NEED TO GO BACK.
YOU NEED TO GO BACK ON TO THE
ROAD AND DELIVER MORE
CONTAINERS."
SO, THEY'RE CONSTANTLY IN THESE
SITUATIONS WHERE THEY HAVE
REALLY NO AGENCY OR OPTIONS.
THEY CAN'T TAKE THE TRUCK AND GO
WORK FOR SOMEBODY ELSE.
THEY'RE REALLY TIED TO IT.
THEIR WHOLE INVESTMENT GETS TIED
UP INTO THIS TRUCK.
THEY WENT BANKRUPT, HOUSES GOT
FORECLOSED ON, ALL BECAUSE THEY
WERE POURING THEIR LIFE SAVINGS
INTO THIS THING THAT THEY REALLY
NEVER QUALIFIED FOR TO BEGIN
WITH.
THEY DIDN'T HAVE THE
CREDITWORTHINESS.
THAT'S WHAT THE COMPANIES KNEW
WHEN THEY WERE DRAWING UP THE
AGREEMENTS, AND THAT'S WHY THEY
STEPPED IN TO KIND OF BE THE
MIDDLE MAN.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN YOU SAY
WORKING DOUBLE SHIFTS AND
120 HOURS A WEEK SOMETIMES,
AREN'T THERE RULES IN THE
TRUCKING INDUSTRY THAT PREVENT
TRUCKERS FROM WORKING TOO MANY
HOURS SO THAT THEY'RE STILL
ALERT BEHIND THE WHEEL?
>> EXACTLY, YEAH.
A DRIVER IS ONLY SUPPOSED TO BE
DRIVING FOR 11 HOURS IN A SINGLE
DAY.
WE'RE LOOKING AT GUYS WHO ARE
ALMOST DOING DOUBLE THAT.
AND WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS THEY
COOK THEIR LOG BOOKS.
THEY DOCTOR THEIR MANIFESTS.
AND A LOT OF THE COMPANIES NOT
ONLY KNOW THAT THEIR DRIVERS ARE
DOING THAT, BUT THEY REQUIRE IT.
WE FOUND INSTANCES OF
DISPATCHERS WITHHOLDING
PAYCHECKS UNTIL DRIVERS DOCTORED
THEIR LOG BOOKS.
WE HAD MANAGERS WHO WERE
ACTUALLY SHOWING THEM HOW TO DO
IT EVERY FRIDAY.
AND IT'S REALLY ILLEGAL, AND
IT'S REALLY DANGEROUS.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, SO
THE GOODS THAT ARE BEING
TRANSPORTED BY THESE TRUCKS ARE
MAKING THEIR WAY INTO MOST OF
THE STORES THAT WE'RE FAMILIAR
WITH AND WE SHOP AT.
WHEN YOU ASK THOSE STORES
WHETHER THEY KNEW THIS WAS
HAPPENING AND HOW THESE GOODS
GET TO THEIR SHELVES, WHAT DO
THEY SAY?
>> BECAUSE THEY DON'T HIRE THESE
GUYS DIRECTLY-- THEY OFTEN HIRE
SHIPPING COMPANIES, OR LOGISTICS
COMPANIES THAT HANDLE ALL THIS--
THEY DIDN'T REALLY WANT TO
COMMENT.
THEY DIDN'T THINK IT WAS THEIR
PLACE, WHICH IS, OF COURSE, AN
ARGUMENT THEY TRIED USING IN THE
PAST WITH A LOT OF THEIR
FACTORIES OVERSEAS.
BUT WHAT THEY WERE SAYING,
REALLY, WAS THAT WE EXPECT ALL
OF OUR VENDORS AND CONTRACTORS
TO ADHERE TO THE LAWS.
WE HAVE OUR CODE OF ETHICS.
WE WANT EVERYONE TO FOLLOW IT.
BUT AS FAR AS, YOU KNOW, WHAT I
HEARD, A LOT OF THE TIMES, THIS
WAS NEWS TO THEM.
AND, THEREFORE, THEY DIDN'T
THINK THEY REALLY WERE IN A
PLACE TO COMMENT ON IT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
BRETT MURPHY OF THE "USA TODAY."
THE STORY IS ONLINE RIGHT NOW.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> HEY, THANK YOU.